Hey everyone, it looks like
we're, uh, we're hitting the
top of the hour now. Um,
however, we are going to give
it a few more minutes just for
everybody to hop in and get
settled. I know for those of
you at the University, some of
you may have been moving
around with some coursework or
affect things like that.
And then we also have some
other potential outside
sources coming in.
So. I want to go ahead and allow
a little bit of a buffer for
that. In the mean time, uh, with
your environment, if you haven't
gotten that all installed, I
would. I would advise to take
this time to do so.
Uhm, no. That the first hour
today is just going to be
lecture. Uhm, you know,
contradicting the hands on.
So.
Uh, so the first hour is going
to be lecture and then today
will, uh, will be going through
some system hacking, so we'll
we'll be looking at various
things. Uhm and then today will
finish out with that today and
then tomorrow we're gonna be
more pivoting into some more
basic web. Attacks.
And then we're also going and
then will finish off tomorrow
with the with the scenario
that you would actually see
in a pen test.
And if you have any questions
or anything you know, feel
free to message me.
It started.
So again, well wait about will
wait till about 545 will get
will get going at 4:05.
You have one.
All you can handle.
Hi everyone, seems like some
people are having some trouble
with installing the software so
I'm just gonna walk everyone
quickly through so their
instructions. But for you. So
basically here first for bottle
box this is a URL.
And you can just go download.
Let me know if my screen
is too small.
And just choose whichever one
that your device is operating
on. Whichever OS that you guys
are operating on, and then once
you have it downloaded, you can
just go back here and follow the
rest of the instruction.
For Cali this is a real for you
to download the image. Make sure
that you know downloading for
VirtualBox image so which ever
image you want to download, just
go ahead and click on it.
Are but I suggest 64 bits for
most of cases.
Um again, once it is downloaded,
go back here and choose either
one of those instructions that
works for your OS.
And then Modeste multiple.
Just hit this download button.
This one is a little heavy. It
might take awhile, um, and then
again. Once it's downloaded you
can just finish following the
instruction. It's very fast. It
should be 3 minutes if your
device have enough memory. So
before you do this, try to free
up your trash can or anything.
That's my slow it down.
Yeah, we're here to answer your
question if you need help.
The URL to this website. It's
also in the chat box.
I'm I'm I'm gonna jump in really
quick. Hi everyone, I just
wanted to make sure so you do
not have to allocate necessarily
but not a space that you want
per box. You could always
dynamic dynamic dynamically
allocates the box itself.
Up to where it will adjust its
on your storage space
accordingly. The the basic
default settings that all the
boxes go through should be more
than enough on 99% of machines.
So what David is talking about
is here. Let me show you.
For example, I'm
gonna mute this.
So.
Uhm, no Kelly.
Books.
Run.
So this is Waht David was
talking about. Uhm?
Or dynamically allocate your
dogs. So when you.
Create a. You imported
or created VirtualBox.
I just wanna have it.
Hi. Let's see if I'm
instructed to town.
So here this is what
I was saying. So when
you import your uhm.
Machine there are supporting can
you whoever is keeping your mic
on? Can you please turn it off?
Thank you.
Uh, so after you
choose, uh, these
settings then?
Um, create that what you had
disk and then.
It should be apart for you.
To choose your memory, uhm.
Let me go back here, yes?
OK.
So.
Oops.
OK, uh, this is the size
that you can drop it however
you prefer. Uhm, and then
after this part is.
Done.
Then Yes.
For your morning sorry, I was
looking in the chat.
Multitasking is not mine.
Fortunately. OK, so I believe
for this one it didn't show that
part, which is very interesting.
But anyways, if you see a box
that it says create a dynamic.
Memory. Um and it should be the
other options as well. Fixed
size or dynamic. Then choose the
dynamic, then it will help you
automatically allocate. So right
now. For your body box.
If you can, you can just use the
default settings and then delete
the host after you're done. When
you delete the house though,
make sure that you all that
stuff goes into your garbage can
or your recycling bin. Whatever
it is on your computer, and so
when you do that, it's going to
store that in there, so it's
still going to take up space, so
you got actually recycle it or
take it out of your recycle bin.
Huh? We have multiple drive to
uhm, you can have it. You can
have the file path of where
stuff gets stored on a different
drive so that it doesn't take up
the space on one drive.
So various options.
Uhm, but for this.
The default if you. If you have
the space. I mean you can use
the default settings and then
you know if you need um, less
space. Yeah, you can dynamically
allocated. Um?
And then you know if you if you
know you're kind of stuck
between a rock and a hard place,
so to speak, and you just.
You can't figure or can't get it
to work, um. You know you can
still follow along. Uhm, I
mean, you know, because we're
virtual, we only are able to
extend, you know, help.
So much right so?
Excuse me, um.
So you know if you can, the
default settings are fine.
There's no reason overthink it.
You can just populating.
Tool box you'll be good to go.
Yes, yes.
And if you are having trouble,
like I said a, you'll have the
next hour to do that. 'cause
we're not going to do any hands
on stuff, so to speak just yet.
But we are going to do some
hack, don't worry.
Up and then leri, uh, if you're
actually if your PC is actually
fighting you back, you might
wanna put on some boxing gloves.
So.
So we're almost 15 past hour and
we only got 2 hours to do this,
so we try to kick it.
Sounds good.
OK.
All right, uh Kim, I'm
gonna take.
OK, yeah.
Also, can is also the official
moderate are for this, so if
you have any questions.
Gotcha.
So.
Let me know some things.
I'm really quite so that
I can see everything.
So, uhm. So welcome everyone.
To this two day workshop where
we over the next two days, we're
going to be going over some
basic pen testing concepts.
We're going to do a lot of talk,
a lot of banter, an most
importantly, we're going to do a
lot of hands on stuff.
Um and apply all the stuff that
we're gonna learn. We're
actually going to apply it to
the lab that were that we built
right up. For those of you that
we're able to do it, you should
have a Kali Linux image. We're
going to be using that as an
attacker image. And then you
should have the medas voidable
image, which is the vulnerable
image. Um, if you can't have
those two machines if they're
not working together just yet,
don't worry, I just need you to
make sure that you had him. You
have him stood up, so to speak.
That's where you haven't
actually up. Power on and we'll
worry about making sure they can
talk to each other here in a
little bit. So let's go ahead
and get started.
So again, welcome everyone.
Uh, we're going to be that these
are going to be some of the
concepts we're going to be
talking about, so we're going to
be talking about Pentesting,
offensive security, and cyber
security in general. So you're
going to hear some terms.
That you may not be familiar
with. For those of you that are
familiar with them, if someone
asks, please feel free to help
out each other. You know we do
have two days to do all this.
Um, so that's This is a really
good way for everyone to
network. Get to know each other,
right? 'cause we're all here to
learn and do some hacking. Right
again? Uh, and inventor is
welcomed. Please keep it, you
know. Have a PG level since we
are doing this virtually, you
do have a chat box to kind of
like talk. Make jokes if you
want to, but please, you know
don't make it offensive. You
know we are refrain from
swearing an and you know
pointing fingers so to speak.
Uh, these are some chat OPS? Uh,
that will do individually.
Um, what city you, uh, Kim,
myself and yourself and you
guys, right? So a special shout
out to City University of
Seattle for allowing us to use
their platform. Um?
There were using teams with
them, so for many of you you
know you're, uh, you're part of
the University. And then there's
a few of you from the outside,
and so again, thank you for
taking the time out of your
schedules to be here.
Um? But I just wanted to give a
special shout out to the
University for allowing us to
use teams and their platform to
present this. For those of you
from outside the organization,
these are just a couple bullet
points. Good to know about city
you is that they have multiple
programs in computer science and
cyber security. If you decide to
go an applying, get enrolled in
one of their programs, there's a
good chance you might have me.
Has a professor I teach various
cyber security. Courses at the
University and then some of you
here today. Um have had me
as a professor.
Next, I want to give out a
special thanks to, uh, to Kim
when she is the.
She is the president of the city
you Tech Club. Banshee is ATA at
the City University of Seattle,
uhm. She is a very good
researcher, Anna very good
programmer. Her and her team
displayed a project not too long
ago, where they actually were
basically hacking drones. Um,
so if any of you are
interested in talking to her
about how to create programs
to do cool things, or just,
you know, hack all the things,
please feel free to reach out
to her after email here.
Kim, do you have anything you
wanna say? Thank thank you so
much for the shutout. Uhm, I'm
happy that everybody's here
inside and outside of cou and
I just want to use this time
to also thank my ambassadors
for also jumping in and
helping as well to make this
workout happen. So Spencer app
Watt Clark David. If you guys
are there just turn on your
camera smile so people know
who you are. Some of the
instructions are created by
these ambassadors as well so
thanks everyone being great
team.
Thank you, thanks David.
These guys are awesome too. They
got you has helped me out with
so many things. So many dreams
is also one of one of my best
students. All of you are my
best. I mean not not saying
outside of all the students in
here, but he's he's very
engaging always, always reaching
out to me. He's been the team
lead on all his projects. He's
really, really good guy. Really,
really motivated. And then David
David is an all around awesome
guy that's always willing to
help as you guys can see in the
chat like he's helping out only
guys so. Feel free to ping
these guys, um, if you have
any. Any questions especially
about the University.
And you know, if you have
any questions during.
It works out.
OK, next slide.
I did have a real quick
question, sorry.
Uh, this is Josh.
Uhm so I I got the medas
portable, uhm and then it's a VM
DK. How do I put that into
VirtualBox? Or is that not
another image? Uh, you'll have
to be you should you have to
install it, 'cause it might
help him so that I don't get
too off. Otherwise will have
to appreciate. Sorry no, it's
it's all good. Yeah, just come
in the chat, somebody should
be able to help you.
All right? And then there is
myself, um, I am the person with
her, not the one with feathers.
Um.
My name is John Helmis. Uhm, I
have a a few different sort of
a lot, a lot of various
certifications. I put some up
here that pertain to the
course work that I'm going to
be teaching over the course of
the next two days. I have the
OS EP which is the offensive
security certified
professional certification as
well as the County of contest
plus certification and all
three levels of Certified
Ethical Hacker.
To the right of this, uh, these
are a couple. They will not. A
couple of these are a few of the
various different things I've
done throughout Mycareer. Um,
some of the more interesting
things that I've done recently
is I've gotten more into being a
researcher for a WS, not
researching for a WS, but
looking in researching a WS and
infrastructure as a service. I'm
also currently writing a book
for a big big publisher. Haswell
has a DCS and PhD student.
Um, an A fun fact about me is
that I'm also a farmer. I
actually have a a farm out here
in Washington where I raise
goats and alpacas chick in
daves, ducks and all sorts of
stuff. So.
That's a fun time. Always busy.
Now I think you guys right
special shout out to
everybody who took the time
to come out here.
Are in here rather and, uh, you
know, just kind of see what this
is all about. Uhm, you know,
kind of get your hands on the
keyboard a little bit. Yeah, you
know maintaining that curiosity
and that drive to like figure
out how how things work in a
different perspective, right?
Because the pentesting isn't the
typical way of how we look at
cybersecurity, right? It's the
fund looking side, but it's not
the typical side. So.
Special shout
Stop, of course, that we're
gonna be going on over the next
two days, right? Beginner
friendly, we're not going to
be doing any crazy exploits
were not going to be doing
buffer overflow is we're not
going to be writing code or
anything like that. This is
just a simple baseline
introductory independent
testing right? We're going to
be looking at using doing,
scanning, scanning for
vulnerabilities.
Uh, looking at various scanning
tools, we're going to be looking
at ways of how we can gather
open source intelligence stuff
to actually use that to create
attack paths. And then we're
going to start going more into
the weeds were actually going to
start attacking easy services.
We call those low hanging fruit.
It's very vulnerable services
that are open to everything.
Then we're going to start doing
a little bit of web packing.
We're going to do some injection
and some cross eyed scripting.
In some remote code execution
and then, uh, and like I said to
finish it up, um, for the last
hour tomorrow, we're going to
actually have a scenario where
it's it. Would a scenario that
simulates what a client would
give to you if you were a pin.
If you're pen tester, what
they're going to give to you and
how you would execute that. So
we'll get the the scenario plan
and then will create the attack
path and then will execute it by
actually attacking the target.
So. Very, very big in apartment.
Uh, I'm big on interaction. I
really so you know, speak up in
the chat. Uhm, I would say, uh,
don't because there's so many
people here. Don't hot mic it,
uhm, but do if you have a
question, send it in the chat to
one of the ambassadors or the
TAS or just anyone.
Um, there are no dumb questions.
Right so, and while this in,
that's the next point is. Well,
it is non formal. This is a very
open area and open.
Workshop please refrain from
any kind of vulgar language.
We don't need any of that. I
have zero tolerance for that.
An if you know anything like
that occurs, it will be taken
into account.
And again, also zero tolerance
for any negative comments
towards the staff, the audience
so such as yourselves and
amongst anymore. So we're all
here to learn. We're all here to
have fun. And you know, there's
no dumb questions. There's just
questions to be answered.
And I need to put this out there
an advisory. All the techniques
in lessons that you're going to
learn. Throughout today and
tomorrow, please do not go
forth and use them for
malicious purposes.
Uh, some of the techniques that
we're going to learn.
Our basic fundamental.
Steps that that cybercriminals
use, and that and and they use
these techniques. As part of
their attack path to actually
perform malicious activity. So
with That being said, please do
not use anything. Learn in this
class for anything other than
using it for educational
purposes for research purposes,
or if you have and this is a key
word. If you have written
permission to do so.
So again, only if you have. If
it's for research in a
controlled environment. Or if
you have consent and consent
should follow for everything.
If you have any other
questions about that, please
please let me know.
So what are the prerequisites
for this? Well, you just gonna
have some basic fundamentals,
right? Uh, I I would have
advised to have some coffee, or
at least some kind of
caffeinated beverage. Or
whatever, get your your mind,
your mind going and then also
to have a creative mindset
'cause we're going to be
looking at cyber security in a
different kind of perspective.
Materials for those of you that
are just hopping in, we talked
about it. You can look in the
chat. Um, you do need to have
VirtualBox. You can get that off
of. A straight from Oracle right
from Oracle? Uh, you need to get
a Kali Linux image which you can
get from offensive security.
And then you also need the medas
voidable. Marble image
'cause The The Medas
portable image is going to
be the image that we are
going to be targeted.
So in the target audience
students and just IT
professionals that are
interested in learning some
testing, right?
Again, why we're doing?
Basics right and the learning
objectives. Just getting a basic
understanding of pen testing,
right? We're going to be doing
that through hands-on practice.
Right and then the other thing
is, have fun. You know, this
isn't uh. We're not.
Testing you on anything. We're
not here to like this
challenge you or anything
right? We're just here to have
a good time and to learn a
couple things while we're at
it.
So.
Here is.
The agenda for the next
couple days.
So we're going to talk about a
pentesting look at a couple of
road map items, do or hands-on
learning stuff. We're going to
do that today and tomorrow and
tomorrow we're going to finish
up will conclude everything up.
And then we'll do some
Q&A for any of those of
you who have questions.
Right, So what is pentesting
pentesting our penetration
testing, which is also known
commonly as pentesting fantast,
ethical hacking, things like
that, right? Is A is an
authorized great? That's the key
word is an authorized simulated
cyberattack on a computer system
performed to evaluate the
security of the system. So
basically what we're trying to
do is we are evaluating through
a full path of A tag on how we
can exploit a vulnerability.
For those of you that have work
tonight, are, you know, looked
at vulnerabilities on a on a
computer. You see the
vulnerabilities right? You have,
you know, the things indexed
with them. So like you have
something that says you know
this can be exploited by a bee
and see right. And it says that
it has a severity of this.
So on and so forth, right? You
see all these words and it
tells you what could possibly
happen. Appin test takes it a
step further and says OK, this
is how the next blooded. This
is also how?
Outside attacker could exploit
it, right? Where were valuating?
The vulnerabilities on a
system by actually going
through an attacking.
Lot of times for pen testing,
you're going to hear that is
hacking is just hacking
attacking. It's it's a lot more
than hacking. It's a very big
business model and a business
process now, um, it has it says
here, right? It says penetration
testing is more than just
packing things right? In fact,
Pentesting is a lot more
research and writing than actual
hacking. That's very, very true.
Before you attack anything, you
have to do a lot. A lot of
information gathering on it
rather that be by looking at the
target and looking at services
or applications on it.
Um, looking at code repository
is things like that.
And you do a lot of research
you you gather small pieces of
information from the target and
then you go back and you go in
Google everything about it
right? And and figure out as
much as you can about the
target before you even attack
it. You also a lot of times
will have to write out an
attack path on how you're going
to attack that right, and it's
a good way of documenting
things because that way when
you attack it and you can say,
OK, I was able to do a B&C, but
then I got stumped and I
couldn't keep going right. And
then you can write up another
attack pack.
So it's a lot a lot of it is
writing and research and more
writing. Uh, if I had to give a
good good estimate, I would say
that. The hands-on part is maybe
consisted of 20% of it, maybe?
So. Yeah, and that's coming from
someone you know who pin test
for a living. You don't? You do
a lot of hands on stuff, but
there's a lot of other stuff
that happens before, during and
after so. Uh, I gave an example
it says imagine you're scrolling
around on uh, on medium medium
as a blog website looking for an
article that has to do with XX
is just a variable, right? X can
equal whatever you want, but X
will define the scope of what
you're looking for, right? So
think about that in the pen
test. You have a target of X.
Once you find X, you read about
it and possibly find out more
stuff about X. Right, think
about as as lateral movements.
Lateral movements is where we
shift back and forth.
During a pentest or in an
environment?
So imagine you have to write out
a comprehensive report that
details every step that you made
before, during, and after
looking at that article and
looking at other articles that
have to do with that article.
And then you writing things
about that article.
Alright, that report helps
illustrate huaian what of your
of your of your research?
Also displaying how to search
better and go around and and
everything right? That's pen
testing that is pentesting. That
is where you look at something,
right? You were given a target.
You were given a web application
and you have to know as much
about that web application as
you possibly can before you even
just just decided to start
attacking it again. And we have
consent, right? This is a pet.
We would have an agreement where
it says were allowed to pen test
were allowed to attack.
And we have to learn as much as
we can. We write all this stuff
down and then we, you know, we
write it all down. We take notes
and then we use that those notes
to write a more formal rendition
of them later. And then we take
all those notes and then we
started applying it to a
scenario, right? We say, OK,
well, we're going to attack here
and there will be attacked here,
here, here, here, right?
So you write all that down and
then you do it and then you
start taking screenshots of
everything that you're doing
right. A pictures, uhm and then
and you start writing down
everything that you do and you
have to. It's a very technical
process that you have. The pen
tester have to then turn around.
And and be able to illustrate it
any non technical manner.
Hum.
I'll answer that then. Yeah,
just a second, Morgan asked a
good question, uhm?
And so when you take all the all
this stuff right, you take you
take what you did before all
your research and you take.
Pictures Anne Anne notes right
technical and nontechnical
like you might write a command
down. Or you might say I tried
this but it didn't work right
or I tried this and it did
work and that was able to
dismiss this right? So you
write down everything that
you're doing technical wise
and non technical wise you
take screenshots of stuff.
And then you finish up.
Right, say it took two days
and you finally finish up.
OK, cool. I have all my notes
that I took before.
I have all the notes that I took
during. Alright, now I have now
that I'm finished now I have to
think how can I combine all this
stuff and create a story.
More so, how can I free a
story that illustrates the
impact of of what I did
and the impact that what I
found has on the business?
And How do I write all this
technical jargon and all these,
like scrappy notes that I took
down? 'cause you're not going to
write really comprehensive notes
while you're doing a pentas
'cause you don't have no time?
And you have to take all this
stuff that you wrote down and
you have to say I have to write
this into a store and I have to
write all this technical jargon
into a story that someone can
read in a non technical person.
Right?
And you have to. And so then you
basically funnel all of that and
you create a pen test report.
Right and a pen test report
highlights what you did.
How you did it? Uh, if you want
to write a good report, you
typically have a section that we
call it a like a manual
assessment or the exploit set
part of the assessment. Where
will the pen tester will
actually basically give a story?
A technical story about how they
didn't use that? Using
screenshots for those of you
that have like red writeups and
walkthroughs for hacking
challenges? It's a lot like that
where you give a story of how
you did what you did.
Right, and then you write to
you right? Findings that are
associated with that story
in those findings. Say hey,
I found this exploit and I
was able to exploit it.
And here's the risk that it has
towards your organization.
Here's the impact. That if
something were to happen, this
is the impact that this exploit
will have on your company.
Here's the the feasibility of
exploiting it right.
Um?
And in in anything there between
you and then you also need to
get references right. You need
to reference what you're using
based off of that, 'cause you
don't want to tell people you
know. Oh well, you need to do
this because you need to do it
right. You need to have a
reference. You're also when you
get to a certain point,
especially once you become like
a senior pen tester or principle
security engineer your. You're
evaluated based off of your
experience in your knowledge, so
um, references are still going
to have, but they're not.
They don't weigh as heavy
as just you being.
Um? So before we get into the
next portion, really quick. Um,
Morgan asked the question, GR
ask a good question. So Morgan
says share style of writing used
to write reports.
And document your research.
That's a great question,
right? 'cause we all and I'm
gonna give a blanket
statement and then a more
direct statement. The
blanket statement is
whatever writing style works
best for you. Use that.
For when you're documenting for
when you're documenting because
the documents are for you.
And you're going to be able
to, you know people. They
call it chicken scratch right
where you just write stuff on
a pad really quick. Or if
you're in class and you just
a quick little notes of focal
points of class and keywords.
Same thing during a pentest.
Um and how you keep those
nodes is up to you. Whatever
way works best for you. Some
people like to keep it in a in
a in a cloud drive like Google
Drive or something, or are.
And some people like to just,
you know, put store in a Word
document, right? Make sure
though that whatever you do is
sufficient for you and the way
how you write will be
affective for the client,
right? And what I mean by that
is that it's your writing is
affective in the sense of
where it has a return on
investment for your client. So
if you keep your client happy,
they'll keep you happy because
they'll keep you retained.
And then for writing style.
Just your style of writing, uhm?
The the best way to do it is one
look at other peoples pen test
reports. You can find
Princess reports on my GitHub
and there's a couple
different ones out there on
the Internet. You can find
those.
The other best way to write
it is to think about how, if
you were reading it. If you
were the CEO of a company and
you're reading someone who
hacked your company, you paid
them to hack you.
Think about what you would want
to see right now. You wanna see
OK? Well, what did they do? You
want to see that manual pentas
part portion? You want to see
the story. OK, what are some of
the techniques they used list
out at a table of techniques
that are used. OK, well I want
to know what's the most critical
ones in the findings you're
going to have a table of
findings there going to be
listed from critical to
information for the critical
ones are the ones that need to
be fixed right now right now.
Like if somebody, they're easy
to exploit and they have a huge
impact, right? Think about it
like default credentials on a
public web server and you just
are able to get in.
And then you have to hit the
Kingdom. That's very dangerous.
That would be something critical
or informational is something
like, oh, I found a A Web Server
version and it's not even old.
and I found the Web Server
version on on, uh.
On a info page for your website.
That would be something that
information so, um.
And for a lot of you, especially
those for you that are in
school, um, you already write
papers a lot.
So you already have an upper
hand. One of the best ways to
become good at report writing is
to write a lot. And I think
that, uh, in being in school,
you're forced to write a lot,
and so it helps you develop your
own style writing. Because when
you're doing a pin test, you
don't have to be so formal or
academic, you just have to be
professional, right? But you get
to have some creativity, so
because you're so used to
writing in a certain scheme,
you're able to do it.
In a more creative, professional
manner. And then the other
question is, is pentesting
all about reporting the
information vulnerabilities
that may lead to
exploitation or actually
exploiting it and then
patching it? It depends.
So you will report the
vulnerabilities that you find
and some of them you will
exploit. Some of you won't write
some of them. You may find in
there not extremely exploitable,
or you don't have the time,
right? You might find an exploit
or vulnerability that it might
take a little bit of time to
exploit it, and you just don't
have the time because you're
busy exploiting a bunch of other
things. Or the pen test is just
not long enough, and that
happens a lot, but you as a pen
tester or also there for your
best judgment and you.
Are your essentially you are
paid to to make that assumption?
Just make sure that when you
make that assumption, if you
document it and you report it
that you have documentation to
back it up right. You have
references rather that be from
peer reviewed articles talking
about the exploit, or rather
that show illustrations of the
of how the vulnerability has
been exploited another. In
other areas so.
Uhm and then and then may lead
to our actually exploiting them,
patching it, and then patching
it is part of the organization
you as a pen tester not
responsible for patching at all.
Is the company. And typically
you'll follow up if you're not.
If you're doing external pen
testing then you will be you
will like say you have your own
company in your pen testing a
client. You'll follow up with
them, typically about a half a
year later to just check in, do
a health check with them, maybe
even do another pen test just to
see if they fixed everything.
So.
Which leads me to another,
so the next portion.
Reasons why we pin test
right? This is one of the
biggest reasons.
Because their standards. There's
governance. There's there's
policies in place.
A lot of different things,
right? That's a.
We have to do this.
We have to do this because it's
the law, basically right. You
have to do this because if you
don't do this. We can't, we
can't be assured that you're.
That you're keeping
your company safe.
So there's there's lots of
sanctions in place that make
make you do this, and guess what
happens? If you don't do it.
You're not able to operate
those systems.
What happens if you can
operate those systems well?
Then you can generate revenue.
And if you can't generate
revenue while your your company
is not going to not not going to
live too long, right? So.
We have to pin test now for
compliance. And there's various
different reasons of why we have
to bend test for compliance.
We're not really going to worry
about that, but just know that
it's becoming more regulated and
it's becoming more. It's
becoming more of like technical
law basically, so to speak.
And.
And for those of you that you
know from the outside, looking
into the into the industry and
into this field, it's going to
expand. OK, and I've done a lot
of research on this and this is
based to in the next Seven
years. Expand to like a. I think
it's Seven is between like 5 and
7 billion dollar industry which
means a lot of positions are
going to open up. So rather you
want to make a lot of money or
you want to have, uh, you know
you wanna have job security? You
want to do something really fun?
Are all three. This is a very
very good career to get into.
I'm sorry my I have.
I get it right.
So.
These are just some road map
things right of one of the
biggest questions I get asked,
right? Is that? That these
people ask John, How do I become
a pen tester like? What's the
ABC way of going too well?
There's not really an ABC way of
how to become a pen tester.
If I'm being perfectly honest, I
see people get become pen tester
straight out of college.
And then you have people like me
where I was an engineer in the
Navy and I worked on, um, some
technical systems but mainly
worked on mechanical systems,
um, and made my way into here. I
see a lot of people who
transitioned out of law
enforcement and get into pen
testing. I see a lot of
programmers go from being
programmers to pentesting lot of
tech support. Individuals go
from that to being being a pen
tester, so it's.
It's a very big Broadway of how
to get into it, because
Pentesting isn't all about your
skill set. Pen testing is also
about what your knowledge in
other things because you have to
every week are going to be doing
something different, right? You
might be testing a Web
application you know, week
after, week after week after
week. But the web application is
going to be different and it's
going to have a different back
back end technology, right? And
you're going to. You're going to
be experiencing different things
all the time and having a
different perspective rather be
from law enforcement or being a.
Naval engineer are even working
on a help desk or even I've
worked with people who were.
Subway. A sandwich
artist before.
So.
It's all about having that
creative mindset and thinking
outside the box. That's the
biggest thing. Uhm, well the
other more interesting things is
that a lot of the people that I
worked with over mycareer have
been, um, breakdancers.
Oddly enough, I've worked
with a lot of people that
were breakdancers.
So another big question that I
get asked. A lot.
Is John. What certifications do
I need? Can I go well, hold on?
Let's look at this because
there's a lot of different
certifications in this field.
An I'm gonna.
Speak this up for the people
louder in the back. You don't
need a certification to become a
pen tester, but it does help.
Right, and some jobs do require
a bit, but not all jobs.
Is it good to have assert 100%?
Do some jobs require a certain
absolutely to do compliance
based pentesting? You at least
have to have Ch.
Because it is ready, it is a
regulated certain that you
have to get to do any kind
of compliance been based
pentesting.
For those of you that I worked
in the DOD, you know what I'm
talking about. You have to get a
security plus to touch any kind
of government computer, right?
So.
Uh, if you look this there is a
lot of stuff going on on the
screen, right? Alaska? I
couldn't, I couldn't break it
down to a point to where we just
focused on offensive operations.
Um, so we have the whole thing
and it's good to know, because
even when you're a pen tester,
it's good to get search in other
fields. You don't have to go
all the way in the offensive
operations. There's one or
two in here. I was looking at
the other day that I have
that don't fit in the
offensive security track.
However.
So in this track, security plus
is that is that one down there
in purple? That's the key point
to get. I recommend everyone
get security plus, rather
you're a student or not, or
you're trying to become a pen
test or not because it's going
to teach you the basic
fundamentals of security and
how it relates to information
systems.
And no matter what you do in
technology, you're going to be
interacting with people and a
computer or multiple computers.
And that certification is going
to teach you all the basics of
what you need to know in regards
to security information systems.
Now staying in the sea, or I'm
sorry, the offensive track. If
you look at the xcerts there in
red, all the ones that pertain
to offensive stuff is in red.
CHCH is A is another Big Sur,
it's pretty expensive.
Uhm, but it's a good Sir to
get, and it's assert that
will open up doors for you if
you want to try to become a
pen tester, right?
Pen test plus by CompTIA is
actually it's in this chart, has
a novice serve. It's not an
officer, it's it's an
intermediate certificate
certificate and it's cheap.
Um, things like $300.
You get some material and
everything for you. Probably
spend about $500 altogether.
Um, another good Sir. If you
look up where it says
programming and scripting. You
CEJPT, that's a really good
start to get. It's cheap. It's
uh, it's about $400 for the
search voucher and you get 4
certain vouchers, the
coursework. It's a hands-on
exam, 100% hands on, you get
labs, you get a bunch of cool
stuff to mess around with. So
really fun exam.
But I highly, highly recommend
very cheap as well.
Uhm, and then going up, uh,
there's a lot of other search
that you'll see on this list.
Some of them are, uh, they're
all good. Um, the ones that I
can speak to, though, uh, we'll
go ahead and go to the next
slide 'cause it talks talks
about the ones that I recommend.
Just based on like the impact
will have on your ear, the cost.
And uhm, and just overall the
benefit of the search, right? So
we have security plus Certified
Ethical Hacker written. There's
a written and practical and a
master portion of this stuff.
Just get their written one. It's
going to teach you the basics of
security and penetration
testing. There's a junior
penetration tester that's the
Egypt. I'll put that in the
chat notes later. It's with E.
Learn security. If anyone does
have it or knows of it, please
feel free to put it into the
chat notes so those who haven't
heard of it can access it, and
then you have Certified Ethical
Hacker Practical. That's a
really good exam to take
because it's going to take
basically the first three of
everything that you learn, and
it's going to put it into a
new, different practical
perspective. It's an
intermediate level search.
But it also is the it's
part of the EC council.
Governing body, which means it
holds a lot of weight.
If you want to become a fan
tester or maintain being
offend tester, also if you get
it, you're Certified Ethical
Hacker written one gets
renewed automatically for
another three years past its
expiration date. So you
essentially made that certain
last six years instead of
three years.
Which is another good thing to
talk. Mission all these shirts.
Except the junior pentester, an
the offensive security, the SCP
have a like a shelf life of
three years, meaning you have to
keep up with see you switch.
Those are going to college, you
get those automatically so you
can turn those in. If you have
these sorts, you can just do get
new sorts and renew them.
I got offensive security
certified professional and that
holds. Wait to see ISP that does
he use for CSP. I got when I got
pen test plus it renewed a bunch
of other sorts. So the best
thing to do to is just get
another server every few years
if you can and eventually you
get to a point where these
search will expire and it's not
that big a deal because you've
already become someone in the
industry who is recognized and
you don't have to have a certain
kind of like validate you.
So to speak. So.
Um, unless if you have to do
it for compliance reasons,
your employer will do that,
and if they don't they
should. And if they don't and
they and they showed and they
still don't, well.
You bet your bet your battles to
fight. Um?
So and then pin test plus is a
cheap cheap exam. But they don't
have. The cost is not related to
the material. The material is
very. It's very well put
together. The exam is really
good. I highly recommend it.
Um can you skip directly to see
each theory you can practice
practical? Yeah, you can a lot
of people do that?
And then the offensive
security certified
professional, the OS EP.
Is the big that's like the the
CISSP for pen testing, it's it's
a really tough exam.
Even prepping up for it takes.
Uh, for most people it takes
them anywhere from six months to
a year. I've seen even more.
Uhm, the really hard Chargers
I've seen people get it done in
three months. Uhm, and there's a
couple mythical stories out
there of people getting it done
in a month. But uhm, typically
once you start training for it,
it takes about 6, three to six
months or a year just because of
how difficult it is.
Oh, and so and then DVR
without taking screw plus
implant exceeds directly. Oh
yeah, absolutely and see each
holds a lot of the stuff in
security. Plus is in Ch
different companies, but a
lot of material the same.
So this is some shirts that are
good to get, um.
The RCP isn't gold because
it's it's known as the gold
standard of testing starts
really going to get.
Alright then, if you have any
questions on any of these sorts,
I have all I put these on here
because these are the ones that
from that list that, uhm?
Drive.
I haven't experienced directly
that I thought were good to pick
out of there. So.
And then this is the last, last,
uh, slide. Before we actually
start doing some hands on stuff.
So this is the typical step of
how we do pen testing and make
sure that when we're we're doing
all of our stuff, we're not
going to do any report writing
in this class, because that's
something that you'll develop.
Does it have time goes on?
However, if you want to know
more about report writing,
please do go get, you know, grab
some test reports there on
GitHub there on the Internet you
can grab them and kind of get a
feel for how they're put
together and then apply your own
writing style of that and your
writing style is also going to
involve like doing that so.
We're not worried about report.
We're worried about planning and
preparation, right? How are we
planning to do this? Well, how
do we do it? With this workshop,
we get our environment setup.
We're going to do Recon.
We're going to do that
during the hands on stuff.
We're going to do discovery
enumeration. Things like that.
We're going to analyze the
information that we find an
associate, the risks associated
with all that information. We're
going to look and say, OK, how
what's the risk and the impact
with this right? And then we're
going to start. We're going to
take what we found. Analyzing
it. And we're going to attack
it. We're going to see if we can
actually exploit it, right? And
the disposable image is by
default it is vulnerable.
So it's it's there for us to
exploit, so we're going to
have a lot of fun.
And then once everything is
done, you know we do a final
analysis and, uh, in a pen
testing environment. We, uhm, we
take you know everything that we
found and we actually analyze it
and we base everything that we
found and we base it on the
impact that it has the business
right? We take the risk.
The information we found and we
associated with the business.
And then, once we've associated
with business, we base we start.
Seeing the impact that it has
on the business on various
parts of business, right?
Rather be on the people, the
infrastructure operations,
things like that, right?
No.
Um, each step needs to be. It
does need to be executed
correctly and efficiently, and
what I mean by that is if that
if you miss one step and you do
it wrong or you don't do it as
well, it screws up everything
and then you have to go back to
the beginning and one of the
biggest things you'll hear is
that enumeration is key, that if
you can't figure something out
when you pentesting, rather it's
on an exam or brilab, or even in
the real world, you gotta
enumerate everything you got to
enumerate all the information
from the target and what that
means by is gathering as much
information as you can rather be
serviced versions, application
versions. Back end server
versions? What kind of language
is the server using?
Is it using PHP that outdated
PHP? Is it using HTML? What type
of you know is it using Java or
is it using Ruby on Rails or is
it using Django or things like
that, right it's? It's
snowing, a lot of different
things and you, so you kind of
has a pen tester. You're going
to learn every day. So and
that's one big thing too.
Before we continue, is that?
Pen testing is something you're
interested in. It means you
also, and for those of you that
are programmers, you know this.
You have to be committed to life
long learning. It's not a water
butts about it. You have to be
committed to lifetime learning.
My one of my managers at my at
my job. He just got to SCP and
he's been doing this for like 15
years and. You know, at at a
point like that in someone's
career, they would typically
say, OK. I've gotten all my, uh,
educational. My training goals
out of the way. Now I can, you
know, keep going now. He he's at
the point where he could do
that, but he has to keep going.
And that's how it is. That's
just how it is in this field.
Because you have to continuously
learn as technology evolves.
So.
Outside for the fun stuff
right now, it's time to get
our hands dirty. It's time to
start digging around seeing
what we could find right.
Before we begin.
Um will take a quick break, um.
To make this is what I recommend
you do will take a like a 8
minute break or 7 minute break.
Has it now so will come back at
5:05. So make sure that you get
your lab set up really quick.
Spin up your Linux image, spend
up your Madeline image, and then
go grab some caffeine or
whatever you need to do right?
And it says, make sure you have
an ad network for your machines
to live on. Um?
So and I will show you
guys that right now.
And then we'll take a break so I
get some. Think about this.
Are we going to?
That's OK, just everybody
pay attention, we're gonna
do we're gonna do it.
Let me give me a second uhm.
Bring up Maine.
Oh my God, my environment
really quick.
I haven't started
my machines yet.
So you should be able to. Sorry
I did it.
Just a second. There we go.
Alright, can you see?
That's actually not work.
Uh, difficulties.
OK.
Is that OK? So now you should
be able to see the screen
right? I do need a. I wanna
make sure that you guys can
see it. Otherwise I don't
know.
Yeah, see it.
OK. So I have these two machines
down here. I have the main Kali
Anne in the Metasploit Obel.
Right click on it. Bring
up the options.
Actually scrap that we're going
to start from start from's from
new so we're gonna go here.
We're going to go to go up to
the top. Go to file right.
Not here file.
Preferences.
You're going to see a tab over
here. It says network.
I don't watch a different
networks in here, So what an app
network is is where we're
basically creating our own
virtual network. So what you
gonna do? You're gonna click add
new Nat Network.
Now we have a new one. You're
going to edit it. So we added.
Now we go to the network. We
right click on it, we go to edit
that network and we're going to
name it, so we'll call it
workshop. Or alcohol workshop
calling whatever you want.
And then you create a, uh, a
Cedar notation with an IP
address scheme. You can just
use. The default. One is
what I do.
Can you click OK?
And now we have this
network here.
All right? Not done everybody.
Hopefully everybody's keeping up
with not uhm.
Just feel free to ask questions.
So you're gonna right click on
each one of these images and I'm
only going to do 1.
But you right click on your
image, you go to settings.
Again, right click on the image,
go to settings, go to network.
You're gonna have a bunch of
options here. You're gonna see
Nat bridged all this stuff,
right? Go to nap network.
And then assign it to your
workshop network.
A Josh as if you need to kill
the Cali Machines, so you'll
need to hurry. It's best just to
reboot him to reboot everything
if it spun up already.
So yeah, give it a good
good reboot.
All right?
Should be able to start
these guys up.
Uh, my network is grayed out,
uh, when I go to the settings
and I'm not sure why.
Right now, yeah.
Network.
Yep, that's correct. So
when you go here in the
settings, right? Yep.
Is it because the adapter
is not enabled?
I mean it's clicked. It says
enable network adapter, but
it shows not network but no
name. It won't let me click
on the drop box below.
Can you do it without your
medas portable machine?
Try with the other machine
just to see No.
It won't let you do it.
Really. And you created
the Nat Network.
Maybe try creating another
one and and weight? Are
your machines up?
They were then I took him down
other in a save state. Right
now though, so strike I close
them completely. Yeah, try
closing him completely.
OK.
Cassandra asked how does this
work in VM Ware Fusion.
No, they're closed.
Uh.
I use VM Ware Fusion that's
on my Mac Machine, which I
had that.
There should be an option to
where you can do that.
So just double checking so you
go preferences right and then.
Uh, go to network and then
create a new not network and
then says OK.
And then it should show up
right, correct? So yeah,
you go here preferences.
You create your network right
and I have you create a new nap
network right and then it pops
populates. And you added
it and that's it.
I realize what I did wrong, so
when I went to settings and I
went to network, the first
dropdown is attached to Nat. You
want to change that to network
and then you can change the the
thing. So. I got it.
OK, and then Cassandra? Uhm, I'm
putting something in here.
So you can do that, um.
You show the new men. Do you
need a need? A second look? I do
have to make a quick head call
before we keep going so.
No.
I'm gonna go make ahead call
really quick. I'll be right back
and then we'll get going.
Hey David, is there a way to
double check just to make sure
that my um, images connected
'cause I had it as a save state
before closing it so I don't
know if you have actually like
reboot, it probably or not.
I'd say just reboot it so
it's working perfectly most
of the time.
You're welcome.
Air and uh.
Are you up to speed now?
I can show him real quick, uh,
if you need to go, Kim.
Sure, can I share my screen?
VirtualBox.
Wait, where am I?
Can you see my screen?
Uh, yes we can see your screen.
Cool alright, so you got you 2
boxes right? So you go up here
first to file. Any click
preferences?
Let me know when you're there.
Network I think for Aaron Aaron
are you. Are you up to speak?
Are you here at this step or
Aaron using VirtualBox or a
different different thing?
Sorry if this is very echoey,
but now I'm using VM Ware AH, I
don't know, be aware.
I put a thing in the chat,
yeah, check the link in
attack that professor John
put their sorry Aaron.
Other key point of being a
good pen tester. Yes.
Follow instructions.
Just kidding.
OK, uh.
Should we check the IPV 6
or other setting of the gnu
network now?
Do it exactly how I showed you.
Yeah, we don't need to be
doing now.
And then, uh, another good
question that was asked is.
In a real pen test, was the
operating system to use and is
in a virtual machine. Uh, some
people? Uh, don't use the
virtual machine. Those who don't
use the virtual machine
typically have either parent
security or Kali. Linux has the
main distro. You'll see a boon
to as well, but Kali Linux and
parrot security have all the
tools that you need already
installed as opposed to a boon
to use your kind of like get
your own images as you go.
Um? Now for me, myself, uh, my
my main machine, uh, I use a Mac
book pro. I like the hardware
and the way how and I can. I'm a
Unix Guy, Uhm?
So that I use that and then I
have VM Ware Fusion on there.
Now I have a Windows image, so
in case I need to do any kind of
like, uhm. Fundamental with
Windows hacking. That's just
easier to do with command line
and interacting with other
windows machines. I just use
a windows VM to interact with
that and then also I have a
Calvinist image that I use.
And then what about connect
host Mac to this network? Leave
that unchecked or just leave
that unchecked? You're good.
Use it because it's gonna
associated IP address book.
Man.
Yeah, some windows open now.
Alright? How are we keeping
while adding both of the network
for both Kaley in meta?
Is it that net network is a
fake network? Essentially
it's a virtual network guys
that you're making.
So OK, you already get your
hands dirty or what?
Yay.
All right?
OK.
They re share my screen so we're
going to be doing a lot of
jumping back and forth from
screens 'cause I have to.
Um?
You want to screen sharing.
So we're going to be all
over the place.
All right?
So. If you're having
issues with VM Ware.
I'm sorry, but your resources
are limited because the course
is built around VirtualBox.
However, VM Ware in
VirtualBox, uhm, you know?
Same thing, different flavor.
However, from that networking we
have the resource in the chat.
But I don't wanna spend all day
troubleshooting VM Ware,
VirtualBox 'cause we still we
still gotta do hands on stuff
right? So let's go ahead and
start doing this and for what
we're actually about to do for
one of the things that we're
going to do. We don't even have
to have. Alex, you can
actually have Google
USD Google, that's it.
So.
Try to get a girl
next slide Nessus.
Nessus, we won't be
doing any NASA stuff.
We're talking about open source
intelligence gathering so.
What is that? It is a great
way to automate basic
network discovery, right?
It's not open source.
Intelligence gathering is where
you do passive pentesting.
Passive pentesting is where
you're not actively attacking
anything. You're gathering
information on the web that's
that's available on the web.
For anyone, right? And it's
important you might ask, but why
would we have that information
on their? Well, because it's
information that's good for some
for people to find out where
your at. How much are
affiliated with? Thanks, we
all want to make sure that
we're known on the Internet.
However, sometimes it has
consequence. Right, and
sometimes there's information
that might be. Out there that
you don't want to be out there,
there might be a
misconfiguration on something.
That leak out information
about you and you don't even
know it. Open source
intelligence gathering is the
way how we discover stuff.
So.
And it says often used as an
initial attack Vector.
Is that what is known as Google
dorks? Yes, Thomas, Google dorks
is, uh, that's the that's using
Google's search engine and you
know everybody goes to Google
and you hear the word. Google it
right now you're going to have a
little bit different.
Perspective on Google.
With open source intelligence
gathering, we also use that has
a initial attack Vector. What
does that mean? It's the
initial, it's one of the ways
how we get stuff right? We get
stuff to to create a way of how
we can attack someone, right?
You find out someone's name and
you find out where they're at.
A lot of times you know you
can use that to us with a
fishing camping, right? You
find your email. You say OK, I
know the person's email and I
know I see that you know it's
first name, last name at
domain.com. Well, that means
that they got a bunch of
other.
Here's a couple tools that we're
going to be using. We're going
to be using the harvester. The
harvester is a really nice tool
that we can use to Automate and
gather information from
LinkedIn, Facebook, from lots of
other things right? And it's a
good way to pull emails
information about people, things
like that. Google Dorking.
Google lurking is where we use a
search engine. To find
just stuff about anyone you
getting, there's a big list of
syntax that you can use to do
Google dorks and executed
efficiently and effectively.
We're not going to go over like
the list, I just have a commit
because we are limited on time
and this is more like a
demonstration to show you were
going to do maybe one or two
different different queries. And
every now and then the other
one, uh, this is a tool that a
lot of people don't talk about.
Uhm? I'm big into a WS
research and into a WS
hacking. Um, because it takes
it's it's a cloud provider
that takes over 60% of the of
the cloud domain, meaning.
Those companies that own cloud
or have the cloud
infrastructure, 60% of them if
not more do it with AWS.
Gray hat warfare is a web
application or web application
tool, web app tool, whatever you
wanna call it that allows you to
find public buckets on the web
associated with domain names.
So pretty cool tool, uh, we're
just going to look at the free
version. You can buy the real
version. I think it's like $200.
You have to buy a subscription.
I think it's like $200 for the
year. But it's really good
for security research and
finding, uh, for those of you
that don't know, S3 buckets
are basically file storage
systems in the cloud.
So let's go so the harvester
right, the objective is this
program is together, email,
subdomains, hosts, employee
names, open, forwards, banners,
all sorts of stuff, right
gathers a pretty good protocol,
are pretty good privacy keys. An
also goes through the showed in
computer database, showed it is
a big open source tool that we
use. Um?
To find various kinds of
things right. Uhm, for if
you're interested, I would
highly recommend going to
put it in the chat.
Shut in dot IO.
Define a lot interesting stuff.
Live webcams on there so.
Let me now sorry.
So it was pretty.
Alright, so now we're going
to be switching over.
Is it a long time, right?
Now you should be able to see
the screen right?
Yes, OK cool.
So. This is Kelly Lenox, Right?
This is our Kali Linux terminal.
An I believe I already created
a workshop directory. Yep, so
we got some some cool stuff in
here. Alright, Alright, so
we're going to be using a tool
called the harvester.
You can type in the word the and
then capital H and then hit tab
and it should automatically.
Do the rest for you, so
take take a second. Spin up
your catalytic's image and
type it in that word. Just
type in the capital H, hit
tab and then press enter.
Young can you do need a
little bit because it a
little bit more, yes.
Oh my gosh.
Yeah, well.
I'm good.
Yeah, no good. Thank you. Yep.
So.
This is the harvester. This is a
fun tool. Play around with.
Perfectly legal to use in any
sense. Uhm, I know people that
use the sales engineers that use
this to find people to contact.
So we're not being intrusive
with this at all, right? So?
We're going to actually target.
A organization that were all
near and dear with.
And target sounds like a harsh
word. It just means that we're
going to scan a uhm.
A domain that we know. So if you
look. You always switches up
here, right? The switches are
what tell you. OK, you can you
use this switch and then use
whatever, uhm? Parameter you
won't put in a parameter is just
a variable that you put in.
So we need to pick a
domain to target.
So we're going to.
You got it right.
And now it says limit. We want
to set a limit on how much
stuff we can query, right? Do
we want to have a list of 500
results? Ballista thousand and
unlike a list of 2000, so on
and so forth, right?
However, when you
do stuff like that.
You need to make sure that you
taken into account. That
The longer. List.
The longer it's going to take,
right? 'cause we're going to
have to be going, it's going to
be going on the Internet and
everything in doing it for.
Help.
Let's do 500 for those of you
watching and doing this. Feel
free to set it to less or more.
And then we have to give it
a source, right? Where are
we pulling this information
problem?
I will call you from LinkedIn by
pulling it from Facebook or
pulling it from Shounen. Where
are we going with this, right?
Hi.
Like to just do all because then
it pulls it from everywhere.
And then you hit enter.
And that's going to go through.
It's going to try to find some
stuff and we give him in it.
And typically on a pen test, if
something like this is going on.
If you have a tool doing
automated things for you. You
typically go and you find it
and you do something else.
Towards the target. So we
would go and we would do, you
know, we find we start doing
open source intelligence
gathering on something else,
right?
Interestingly enough. Did I
don't know is it rain?
So then find anything.
More.
Got a bunch of stuff. Come back
you got you got stuck? Yeah only
did a limited 50 though.
Read it.
I'm gonna just try me
too. I did 50 as well.
Yeah I did 50 Cent.
I typed into 500 like you did
and I got 24 results.
OK, maybe it doesn't like me
today. do I have Internet wait?
Oh, there we go, OK?
So you guys go. You see all
this right? And you guys are
all seeing the stuff that
you're getting right.
Yes, look at all that. So far
I'm just on LinkedIn.
Right, so has a pen tester. We
could say OK.
We could we could go to any
of these individuals, right?
So, um, I'm going to pick a
random one.
Let's see what pig?
We have AP Professor Zankoul.
So basically this tool finds
the amount of people we
specifying the limit question.
How does it choose which one to
grab? Is it's random? It just
base it on the limit that you
set, so it'll keep reiterating,
right? I think it is like a
loop. It keeps reiterating and
going through and going
through.
But if you were to.
You can like search the. I'm not
gonna pull it up on like dinner
or anything, but you could like
search these people
individually. And then you could
go forward and try to find you
know more information about
them, right? Like? The, uh, what
would be something interesting?
Like Oh, we have someone here
that works with the bank. JP
Morgan, who's an associate
there, an associate? So that
means that there are, you know
if they're an associate, they're
not. They're not high up, so
maybe we could talk to them to
try to figure out more
information about someone.
It is higher.
Or
I want.
Here's a student we got Bridget.
And then something.
No no no.
Translate if there's a CEO
there. Supposedly. RC Oh yeah OK
good good catch right. We have a
CEO. Then we can just start
searching about this person
right. 'cause now we know
they're affiliated with the
City University of Seattle.
And you can use that.
Towards towards your goal, uhm?
Rap like, especially if you're
assigned to do like a phishing
campaign. That's where you send
false emails, and you could
say, hey, like we here at city,
you are sitting out emails to
be alumni for this special
alumni, you know dinner and you
know it's a virtual dinner and
you could send it to these
people. Are you know that
person, the CEO specifically?
Happened to log in to like a
portal or something like that.
And grab their credentials.
Things like that, right? Again,
you're only using that for non
malicious purposes, right?
Why do my command only give me
the email addresses of the
users? You might just need to
run the command again.
Sometimes you have to run the
command more than once.
When I do this, I usually
do it 1000 and it gives you
a big list.
But I don't want to again,
time is limited.
So we're not going to worry
about doing all that. But this
is one tool that you can use,
uhm. And especially for those
of you here that you know I've
been in my classes in doing
like risk assessment and
everything. This is really the
tool to just map out users.
No.
Let's go back to.
Looks like.
All right?
Alright, so.
We
we gathered some cool stuff
right? We looked and we found
some emails and things like
that. Um, him says in my
results. I got lots of
info from myself, right?
Yeah, so uh, I know, Uh, I've.
I've seen a couple of you
guys. Um, at least the ones
that are part of the
University here. I've seen
students in inquiries before
so.
Stupid tools.
All right, so the next one.
Google dorks, right Google,
Google hacking off, which is
also known as Google Dorking.
Hacker technique that uses
Google search engine. Another
Google applications to find
security holes in
configurations, computer code
that websites use. So basically
what that says is it says like
if you store a you know XML
file. I'm sorry a non XML file.
If you store any Excel file with
important information I don't
know like. Like pay dates and
things like that you can find on
the Internet. Right and you can
find it just by doing Google.
So we're going to do one
command. Um again, because time
is limited, but I do.
Uhm, I would tell you guys like
hey. Make sure that you go and
you you play around with it
'cause there's a lot of
different Google Dorking
techniques that you can use.
Ah.
Pulls everyone who's going to
who's associate are part of you.
No, let's go back man. Jumping
back and forth.
Hum.
Do that.
We're still.
Going back and forth between
terminal in window.
Gmail.
Alright, so now we're back.
Now we need to open
up a web browser.
So take a moment, take a
moment to pull up your web
browser in your Cali image.
You don't even have to use
kale. You can use any browser.
And we're gonna Google.
And then. We're going to
search, uhm?
Things that might have the word
admin in them now.
I already did this. I did I did
a little bit of this before the
workshop, just to make sure like
we didn't find anything bad that
we would need to report to the
University. Um, so nothing was
nothing, was there?
Uhm, So what we're going to
do is we need to have a link
to associate. So the command
for that is link and I
already have actually have
the command in here so.
Again, um will break this
command down. You know, I hit it
already, but so when your Google
dorks has keywords that it uses
to reference something, right?
So if we break this down we said
link which is the linking to
this domain, which is cityu.edu.
That's the domain, right?
No, we said Filetype. We said
PDF right? We want to see if we
have any PDFs out there that
have the word admin an article.
If it comes up in the URL you
can also do in text.
Admin.
Right?
Do you know anything?
Good.
Like 170 is good, right? OK
so you can see and I put
the command at least this
command in.
Feel free to pop that in. Is
there spaces between those? Yes.
And then your gonna.
I'm sorry, no not well,
not spaces in between.
So if we don't do spaces, I'm
sorry you don't do spaces with
those, but so if we do, we do a
different command really
quickly. So we do admin and then
let's say we do, uhm?
I'll type will do TXT.
Nothing.
What if we just try to see if we
can find some random PDF?
Maybe I take it anymore. I'm not
a few people worker.
OK, maybe we might hold on.
The demo. The demo
gods do not be nice.
We look up Google Doctor,
just gonna work.
So we can go here. You can
go to exploit DB, right?
And you can. You can go
here and you can look at
different queries that you
can use right? And there's
even Cheat Sheets. We can
go and we can do teaching.
What you gonna do that?
I like to call it training
future cars.
So. We're not going to worry
too much about it, but here's
one from Sands, Uhm.
Like Sands, but these are just
some like the parameters that
you can use right here are some
of the key words. They have
examples right? You have site
searches only one website.
So you would search like Edu,
right? We were trying to
find anything that had
pages linked to city you.
And it even gives you some
nice little examples here.
Right?
So there's a lot of cool stuff
here. Uhm, yes it is the Google
search engine, so maybe a little
finicky. You're in there.
But essentially, this is what
you can do right? And print this
off. Play around with it again.
This stuff is totally legal. If
you find something associated
with someone. Report it like
100% reported that's on you
do report it. 'cause one
you're helping them out and
two you get known right?
Uh, so it's a win win for
everybody. They may even ask you
to come in and actually do some
other assessments forum which
turns into, you know, a business
partnership. Which is awesome.
So.
Always cool stuff.
Let's move to another one,
and then we're actually
going to pivot away from the
open source stuff.
They bring the power point so.
OK.
So Gray hat warfare alright, so
this is a fun little tool. It's
new ish um and it's for scanning
and looking for S3 buckets.
Open S3 buckets.
Right, so in open at three
bucket, is it think of it as a
file, a file system or file repo
in the cloud belongs to a WS is
out there in the cloud, and you
can access it via a URL, right?
So that bad if you can, if it's
publicly accessible, right? And
that happens, it shouldn't be
publicly accessible. It should
only be. Accessible to those who
need to access it. However,
system administrators because
it's easier just to make it
public. That's what happens,
uhm? So we're actually going to
look and see if we can find any
open pockets again, I've done. I
did this already just to make
sure we didn't find it. There
wasn't anything like impactful
or detrimental, but it's still a
good good fun tool use.
So we'll go back
to R. Kelly image.
You welcome.
They have.
So type in Gray hat warfare
and then yeah, it should link
you to buckets dot Gray hair
or Gray hair, Gray Wolf, Gray
hatwarfare.com.
So give you guys a second
to bring that up.
Hum.
If you need the link, I will
quit, though not that down here.
Boy, Yeah Alright.
Yes, we will have the recordings
alright. So we want to search up
keywords right? We have those
right here. Before we
search keywords uhm.
No, the keyword should be
typically something like a
domain, right? We want to
look up something like
because we're going to use
this to scan a target.
Right, so if I put in a domain
such a cityu.edu.
She just be able to search
right? And we can include or
exclude different file types.
We're not going to worry about
that right now. Um?
We just click search. And I
actually I have a have a
paid license version of this
where you can do a lot more
different stuff and you can
actually use this for pen
testing. I use this a lot.
So I typed in cityu.edu.
And we can see that we have this
bucket that is associated with F
jolt right? 'cause you have this
full, this are that you are. I'm
sorry this domain path right
here, right? And here's the file
name. So if we were click on
this. It should take
us to the full URL.
And now we have this guy
right? So this looks like
a city, you Hong Kong.
I bought this one. It looks like
another city you Hong Kong one.
And this is another city
you Hong Kong. So it's just
images, right?
Nothing bad, which is good.
It's always good. Believe it or
not, when you're pentesting and
you're not able to exploit
anything, it's it's a very.
Very give and take kind of
emotion with you because you
feel like you didn't do your
job. But it's a good thing. It
actually means that the other
companies doing their job. And
they're actually securing the
company so. Um?
That's another good thing to to
use when you're trying to attack
a system. I'm sorry when you're
trying to gather information to
attack a system because a lot of
times buckets you can, you can
search them if you find them,
they'll have. If their public,
they'll have information that
may have like credentials. It
may have important information
such as PPI, which is personal
identifiable information in
there. Anything in there between
you could really use your
imagination on it because.
Chances are, wherever your
imagination goes there is there
something out there that you
like that? Uh, we have a digital
handling. For Josh, go ahead.
Um, do you ever have time is
John when you're you're doing
pen testing or have done in the
password, you just because you
couldn't find as much stuff the
company tried to call out your
credibility instead of them
actually doing their job. But I
guess maybe that wouldn't make
sense. 'cause I guess they would
probably want to take credit for
that, wouldn't they? Uhm, you
know you kind of I. I like
that he answered his question
while he was asking.
Send you know Uhm I.
I've never had to, uh, are, um,
validate my credentials. Post
pen test. I've had to actually
have to validate my credentials
before doing a pentest. Believe
it or not.
An annual experience that, for
those of you that get into the
field where you have to when
you're talking with the client.
You have to explain to them
about like how things work and
how you're going to do things,
and This is why why you do
things and what's going to
happen from the outcome of doing
these things, and you have to
kind of give a 30 second
elevator pitch so to speak of of
why you're qualified to do this.
Right, so that's like going from
anything from like you know, I
tell people like, Oh, you know I
know SCP certified. I've been
doing this for five. For you
know, I've been doing pentesting
for about five years now. I've
been doing this for about five
years, and I've also been doing,
you know, various things, and I
also do extremes. Amount of
research in this field as well
as like on a scholar in the
field and everything. And when
you say things like that, you
can't just BS somebody like that
because that person that paying
you is going to turn around and
look you up 100%. They're going
to look you up.
And. Um, so again, to answer
your question, yes, but it
happens before the Princess, not
after the same test. 'cause
after the pen test. Yeah,
they're like, Oh, they didn't
find anything. That's awesome.
So.
Lessons from the real pen test
world so. That's all I have for
open source intelligence
gathering. There's a lot of
different tools. Of course, we
don't have enough time to go
over all of them, but these were
ones that I wanted to show you
that it was common to use them.
Their tools that I commonly use.
I know I'm not. I'm not the
best, Google darker but I I
do. I do use it. Uhm and I
use this a lot to to get
stuff from the cloud. And
the harvester is always like
one of my go to things to do
and I'll run a huge huge
scan from harvester together
a bunch of different stuff.
So for those of you that get
into like security consulting or
even IT consulting, those are
going to be some tools that
you're going to. You're going to
experience a lot. Um, so if
you say you been tested for 10
companies, they all did a good
job, so you couldn't find any
vulnerabilities when you move
to a company. 11 isn't it kind
of hard for you 'cause they
could be like? Well, we don't
see any of your real work.
Good question and This is why
we label out the the the
manual assessments in her pen
test reports. We show them we
give them proof things and we
give them the low versions and
the high versions and what I
mean by the high versions is
we show the things that we
really tried hard to exploit
that were very difficult.
And again, but you also have
to make sure that you
highlight and illustrate that
in an easy to understand
manner.
That when you show them the tech
writing, yes, the tech writing
is part of the pin test before.
Sorry about 1 minutes left with
three screenshots of commands
and tools. Ran and info
disclosure all that good stuff.
There's a saying that we have,
UM, when pentesting. It's the
more screenshots, the better.
Screenshots, believe it or not,
or very tedious to do because
you don't know. You don't
realize that you need to take
him when you're doing
everything. So.
When in doubt the
screenshot it out.
No. That's all we're going to
talk about with Bo said. So.
Now.
We're going to move into more
scanning. Can I numerating?
We're going to use two tools for
that, right? So standing
provides details of targets
during your engagement, so if
somebody gives you a target,
they give you an operating
system or a couple computers,
you're going to scan those to
find services, right? Services
are versions or. Of the
applications that are running on
that machine. Right?
It's gonna show you ports.
Porter the the number associated
with that open on the service
that allows you to connect to
that service right now.
Enumeration entails gathering
information about targets that
support services, versions, all
the good stuff, right?
One of the big things is that we
have to know is the virgins and
those services because certain
services may be outdated.
And they may have versions that
are vulnerable. So it's a big
thing to know. Enumeration is
one of the most important
aspects of penetration testing
100%. And I mentioned before,
you're gonna hear saying forces
numerator numerator, so we're
going to be focusing on system
scanning. There's other
different ones, such as like web
app scanning application,
scanning, things like that.
So we're gonna be going over
and back in Sparta is in the
two tools that are commonly
used to scan machine.
A map free tool.
So Sparta, right?
But it's, uh, it's really. It's
a great tool to use, it has it.
I even used it to do things as
simple as ping if I need to do a
scan on a machine or to see if
it's up. It has an opening
option to where I quietly to
figure out if the machine is up.
So it's just used to discover
House and we're going to see
that here in a second and we
use it to to get ports and
services on everything right?
And Sparta does the same
thing. It's just like in map
with a GUI on steroids.
Stop.
Now we're going to scan some
sis. We're going to scan our
mess portable machine, right?
And I'm gonna show you two ways
of how we can do that and are at
least in and how we can figure
out. What are machine is? Are
where it's right 'cause it
should be on your network.
Stop.
Go ahead.
Will bring up Kelly again.
I'm going to go ahead and close
this out, so this is the number
the the 1st way. How you can do
it, and this is the more
practical way 'cause you're not
going to be the other way is
being locally on the on our
vulnerable machine. And while in
a research and in a controlled
environment that makes sense,
but in a real life environment,
you're not going to have. You're
not always going to have access
to it, right? Uhm.
And you're not going to know
the IP or the host name of
the machine, so the easiest
way how we do it, and this is
how I do it. Some people do
it differently. Um, we're
going to pull.
The command ifconfig right?
That's going to let us know the
IP address of our machine.
And we see that it is 10.0 dot
2.4. OK, so now we know that
we're living on that network.
Can everyone see my the text OK
or does it need to be a little
larger? This is from the last
time from the harvester, so I
hope it's good. It's not, let me
know. So now we need to check we
need to check on this entire
subnet this entire network right
of 10 dot 0.2.
We're going to use this
switch. It has switches just
like like the harvest. Are
you gonna go attack right? I
called that attack AS as in
Sierra and has a November.
What that does is it done. No
DNS can, so it's just going to
see if what's up.
Get config is not working.
Uh, you you might have to do
sudo ifconfig like this.
Also might have to do IP
address.
So.
Yeah, maybe.
At my box running his route.
Again in map.
And we're going to put a star
right there. 'cause That's going
to search all 200.
And, uh.
Type.
Oh, the new kale box
doesn't give you
privileges. That's right.
Do that.
The command in there it might be
different for your a machine if
you're having different network.
Couldn't do that really quick.
Should populate the machine.
And as you can see, you have a
Oracle VirtualBox. Uhm, you have
this network interface card that
associates with this one and
then you have one that
associates with this one.
So we can assume.
Based on our on our on our
situation that two arms are 10.0
dot, 2.5 is our target machine.
Now. Because we're in a
controlled environment.
We have access to the machine.
I'm going to bring this guy
up really quick.
So how we want to verify that?
We're gonna have.
Machine.
The.
What is your name?
Miss admin, right? And then
we're going to hear.
And it is in fact
a2.0.two.com.
There we got. We confirmed that.
So now let's scan it.
So we're not going to do any
like crazy kind of command or
anything. We're just going to
do a basic scan.
Uh, we're going to want
to find the versions.
Right 'cause we're looking
for virgins.
Have any kind services?
And I will just.
So again, like man is in math.
And then your eyes.
Yeah, if you can't leave on as
well. I forgot if you are in
there sometimes it it it, it's
kind of. Wiggly
and then there were gonna do
this. Can really quick and I'm
gonna show you guys a cool trick
that I've learned. I learned
this uhm. While ago.
And it really helps out. Right
now we're going to scan machine.
And look at all these, all this
stuff we got open.
You know a lot of stuff,
right? Again, hopefully you
have some it fundamentals so
you understand like what these
ports are in everything.
If you don't come again, that's
please feel pretty catch up
after after the workshop.
Um, so as you can see, we have.
We have a lot of different
services here, right? These
where it says version and
service. That's where it has a
pen tester. You really want to
focus your attention onto.
The ports are just how you're
going to access them. The
ports are important, but it's
just to access them. This is
where your research is going
to go, and looking at the
version and the service.
So.
All 1004 might wanna
retry it fan.
Just try again if you need to
come. If everything is saying is
closed, you can do the.
You can do an opening stand.
Where does it detect you?
After you do that, command along
with the IP.
And it doesn't ping the host.
But it shouldn't do that
mean we're in a controlled
environment.
So. We're gonna do one more
thing. So now.
We're going to do the same
scan and you can actually
just hit up.
Well, it doesn't
want me to do it.
Now.
Now we're going to. You're
going after the IP.
You're gonna hit attack
again and we're going to do
OX. What that's going to do
is it's going to output
this scan into an XML file.
And there's a reason why we're
going to use an XML file.
We'll just call it worked up.
So now, well, that's running.
We're going to start up Sparta.
You just open up the command
line or open up your.
Open up the the the window so
it's big and we we go to Sparta.
Good question can will not
answer that. So an Sparta again
we have. We are other scans
finished up. I'm gonna show you
guys what we did the XML file.
So what Sparta? This part is a
great tool and you're going to
see it more for a little bit
right now and then we're going
to look at it more tomorrow.
Go ahead and we target the host.
We add that to scope.
So what this is going to do,
is this going to run a bunch
of different scans on our
target? It's going to Automate
a lot of cool stuff and good
stuff for us so that we don't
have to worry about all that.
Um, so then see how it started
already. Pop up stuff and and do
a bunch of other thing.
Things.
If you don't have a Sparta OK,
you don't have far to look
like more people aren't having
Sparta OK, then we're not
going to worry about the bar
because it's just a fun tool
to use, but we don't need one.
So and we can do next, we're
going to know more tomorrow.
Just will if we have more time
to look at it. Install smart on
your systems later today or
tomorrow and will look at
starting tomorrow. That sounds
fair, and, um, Niko will look at
tomorrow. So.
This is how this is basic basis
of scanning, right? It's called
Legion now go figure.
This is an older image,
so I apologize for uhm.
Not getting a new one.
This is just the image
that I use.
And for those of you curious
about it, it's the 2019 dot
Ford one. It was last
iteration of last years.
So.
OK. Yeah.
Bring up the power point so.
Let's attack some services
really quick, right? We
got about 10 minutes left.
I know number.
Stop attacking services right?
This Is This is the fun stuff,
right? We did our nmap scan.
We did some cool stuff. We
looked at things. Right?
We gathered information. Now
let's say, OK, cool.
Now we get to attack stuff
right in the pen testing
environment. It's not going to
be this simple, it's gonna.
You're gonna be reading a lot
more about stuff you're gonna
have to be looking up things
right? This is just a general
overview.
Um, so scale. You know when you
go and do it in the real world,
it's scaled out to where it's a
lot more difficult. Things
aren't going to be open. Things
like that. This is just to learn
the basic fundamentals. So,
uh, this involves attacking
services.
Um, there is different ones. The
ones that we're going to be
focusing on are going to be SSH
and and I'm sorry not focusing
on those FTP an SSH. Those are
ones that typically run on those
ports, right? Those are default
ports associated with those
services, so when you're doing a
pen test you cannot. You can
typically try to target those.
Right?
So attacking FTP, right file
transfer protocol is used to
transfer files over over and up
about the wire, right?
So we had it on our last scan.
So this is what we need to think
about when we're looking at FTP.
Is is it open?
Is it anonymous? There's
something called anonymous
login, right? Is it running on a
common port? If it's running on
a com port, OK, we can think
like OK, they didn't take any
extra security steps to put it
on a different port 'cause you
can put it on a different port.
What service is running
right? What version of that
service is running? Is there
an exploitable? Are an
exploit for that version? Are
there tools to help automate
this right? Metasploit such a
tool that we mention.
We're not going to worry bout
mess boy just yet. Hum.
So.
What we what we can do?
Is we will look at.
So open up your window again.
So we're going to do in map,
but we're just going to target
that one port, right? 'cause
we're targeting tour 21.
We use the tab key
option to do that.
We want to know what services
running we're going to run. A
script, sonnet, their scripts
built into the Nmap Command.
Until the map tool, so it's
going to search different
things for us.
We're gonna put it on target.
So for those of you watching.
And. We chat for you.
Starting pitcher.
All right? So it
says that it has.
FTP rock. And it has this
version. And apparently has
anonymous FTP running.
So what that means is
that we should be able
to use the FTP command.
Just trying to log into it.
It asked for her name.
We put anonymous because
anonymous login is allowed.
And they're going to put
password in, and you
literally take all your hands
into, smash it on the
keyboard.
And now it says that it is
successful and you should be
able to run. Commands OK, cool.
Now we're logged in.
Doesn't look like we could
find anything.
So exit out.
Right, so nothing is there.
No. Uh, there is one.
There's one vulnerability
associated with this.
Where you can actually, if
I remember correctly,
double checking.
You can actually get a back door
on two in the back door is where
you actually get a unauthorized
connection onto the system now.
We're running out of time, so we
can. We can look. Will look at
that and then will close up.
Um?
So the tool that we're
going to use.
For that and trying to bring up
my, uh, the PowerPoint
PowerPoint again. We're gonna be
using metasploit. Right?
Mass port is a. It's a very
popular tool, use among
security engineers and
penetration testers. It
automates everything, makes
everything super easy in your
life, right? It has lots of
exploits built into it there
updated to the libraries
constantly and it's just an
all around good tool. So for
those of you that decided to
get into pen testing, you're
going to become very familiar
with this tool. So now let's
actually attack it and then
that will be. It will be it
for the day.
Alright, so to start up
Metasploit.
We have to do something.
Right, we have to type in the
word MSFDB and then you run.
So what that's doing? Is it
saying start up the
Metasploit database?
Start that up.
Now there is a again there is a
vulnerability associated with
this. And feel free to look
up the the the version or I'm
sorry the exploit to the
version of this service.
We're going to use a quick tool
to try there in in exploiting
it, you have to try to connect
to it, but you use this weird
kind of command to where you try
to log in. What was that?
I'm sorry. Who is the Turkey did
make the extra terminal?
Uh, control shift plus to
make it bigger, is that what
you said? No, you you made an
extra terminal window. I saw
you have another tab. Yeah,
yeah, we're going to do
something really quick.
Um?
Sonar.
Now I'm getting all of
the place.
Control shift TO to open up an
extra window. Yeah, sorry.
So there's I gotta duck.
You had, uh, Oh yeah, it's
gonna always going to give
you a different background.
So we can use a command called
telnet. Right telnet is away how
we can connect into things.
Is there a target right now we
need to specify the port that
we're going to connect on, so
we're connecting on port 21.
So now it says that were
connected, but we're not
authenticated to it. There's a
difference between being
connected to something actually
being authenticated to an
authorized to do stuff right?
So what we have to do is when
you're doing this, you have to
authenticate using a username
and a password and there's
keywords that you have to use.
You have to use the word user
for username and I believe it's
a pass for password.
We're gonna do user now. There's
a in this service. This version
of the service. There's a
vulnerability where you can just
type in. Backdoored, you put a
:) :), I can't remember why, but
it it opens up his back door.
And then we put password input
pass and you literally can put
in anything. It doesn't matter.
Then it's going to close
your connection.
And not worry about it now
what you've done is you've
opened up a back door in the
background this.
Is where it gets fun. So
now we've opened up a
back door on the system.
So go back to your Metasploit
machine and you're going. Let me
double check. Have the we gotta
search the version so we're
going to search. You're going to
type in the keyword search and
then it was the VFTPD service.
It was this version.
So we searched that. And you're
gonna get a couple options,
right? Yeah. Hillary is just a
scan. It typically something
to check something and then we
have some exploits here.
Look at this. We have an exploit
associated the back door command
execution, so it opens up a back
door, right? Jobs in the
back door and we get we get
onto the system.
So we're going to go ahead.
We're going to click this
right? Right click on.
We're gonna. Check that in
just a second.
Um, so we're going to right
click or. I'm sorry you're going
to highlight this. You have to
highlight the full path so where
it says exploit Ford Slash Unix
4 slash FTP 4 slash.
That's right, everything that's
highlighted. Right click on it,
copy it. Then we're going to
type in the word. Use 'cause
we're going to use this exploit.
And now we have the
exploit loaded.
So now we're going to check
our parameters.
And this one is pretty simple.
All we have to do.
Is assign it a host a target
host. Our target host was, uh,
is the medas portable machine.
So we go set our host Right?
'cause That's the parameter
that we're setting?
We're going to set it.
So our target.
That's it.
Right? So now.
This is where we actually
break it. Well, not
breaking, but we exploit it.
To click run port is already
used by the blind listeners
already opened. This should
be alright.
Ah, redemption it on that.
Try again.
The service port does not appear
to be a shell. OK, so.
It should have given us access,
but since it didn't work, it
said found shells that we want.
Have Watt found shell a justice?
We can tell that into that port.
Ha.
It doesn't want to work
interesting.
And of course it broke now.
Well, essentially some of you
may have got a shell if you did.
If you did get a shell.
Type in the word ID.
And you should get
something where it it gives
you like a root shell.
Yep, I got root.
Cool.
Yeah, I do not.
And if we wanted to validate
that too, we can actually run
in map from here. We could
even do. It says that because
it opens up this port, right
has a back door.
So we should be able to
type that in.
It says it's Open.
Hum. Interesting.
The moment we need everything to
work. This is where the
demo gods do. Not blame
anyone's favor.
Not always.
Easy Peasy.
Yeah, 'cause essentially you
should get something where it
says, like, Uh, I took a
screenshot of me doing it awhile
ago where it should have where
it says you you have root right?
It should say a UID.
Right, and like it's assigned
you the UID and the group ID
of route and they should give
you a shell.
So.
Uh, just put it into the.
Chat so yeah.
With the fire upload or fire
uploaded PHP reverse shell, you
can do that. Um, that's more
part of the. The way we're going
to do that tomorrow.
Um?
So. Yeah, we're going to do a
lot more more shells tomorrow,
tomorrow. Is it gonna be all
about exploiting things and
getting shells? That's what the
whole 2 hours is about.
I'm so sorry that, uh, this
didn't work. This was supposed
to be the the last part, uhm?
So hopefully hopefully some of
you guys got it working. Um, if
you didn't, you know you can try
to reboot everything. Do it
again, um, so.
About 5 minutes over so I
appreciate everybody sticking
around. Uhm, but yeah, that's
uh, that's pretty much it for
today, um? Like I said, again,
we're all going to be meeting
again tomorrow. In this same
channel. Uh, four o'clock.
Will go from 4:00 o'clock to
6:00 o'clock. We won't take any
breaks if you need to take a
coffee break or something in the
middle of it. Please feel free
to do so, but we're just going
to do 2 hours of hacking.
The same environment that we
have come so tomorrow what we're
going to do is we will. I'm
looking at the agenda that I
created for tomorrow. Really
quick. We're going to attack.
Look at how we attack low
hanging fruit, right? Those are
easily exploitable
vulnerabilities on the target.
And then we're going to move
forward into looking at
actually attacking web servers
will do that for a little bit,
and then the last 30 minutes,
45 minutes or so, we're
actually going to do a
pentesting scenario and
wrapped up.
So.
That's all I have for today.
Thank you everyone for coming
into the The Workshop today.
Does anybody have any questions,
comments or anything except for?
Obviously the demo not working
right now? For those of you that
have given demos in front of the
class, you know what it's the
demo. Gods don't always act
nice. Um? So I'll stick
around for about 10 more
minutes. Then I have any any
questions or anything.
Is everybody saying thank
you, you're welcome.
You're creepy.
Josh asked if they should
save the state machine or it
doesn't matter. You can start
fresh tomorrow. Now we can
start fresh tomorrow. Cool,
awesome. Thank you.
A top five books.
What kind of books?
There's a lot of
different books.
Um my my top five favorite
hacking books are the art of
exploitation. Uh, there's one
about bug bounty hunting that
came out last year by no
starch press. This really good
the penetration testing.
One by Georgia Wiedemann's
really good, um?
Uh, the web back. I think it's
like the web hackers Handbook
is. I think it was called really
good. Um out of scope Ch. Prep
suggestions without official
course where, uh, the Internet.
Read it. There's a lot of stuff
on Reddit. Locks up on credit. I
got all my stuff in it.
How do I scroll the window and
that is portable 2 on
VirtualBox? You just put your
mouse over it and swallow it.
It doesn't scroll because you're
in a terminal, so.
Yeah.
Any other questions or anything?
Doing what?
But why?
Yikes yo. PM forecast
Villa VIM. Sorry them member
cat. What is the future of
different things?
Yeah, that that question
doesn't really. I don't
understand you. What's the
difference between using
VirtualBox?
Again, where do you want to use
something free? Our VM Ware you
typically have to pay for.
I use both. I have a.
License through my company for
VM Ware and I like it, but
VirtualBox is pretty simple.
It's simple and straight
to the point.
Oh, there it is them nano or
emacs? Yeah I like them.
Women VI or my I net emacs I
don't. I've used emacs like 1.
Sounds like I don't want this. I
know a lot of other people like
to use it and then Nano. I use
nano for Aboon 2 just because
it's usually built into it and
it's easier to do.
Exploit dev and stuff in it.
Gee, at it's fun. I really like
to get it. I used to get it
for everything in Cali she
had. It is actually my my
editor of choice if I need.
If I have a like a window.
I love you.
Yeah, just personal preference.
Yeah, it's very colorful.
Not as like colorful like
sublime or anything, but it's a.
It's a colorful way to.
Dubai auditing.
No.
Thanks to Linux plus,
I'm able to understand.
We're going to be doing a lot
more stuff tomorrow, too. That
involves the Linux stuff so.
That's why I said, You know,
it's A to do this. You need a
you have a. A basic
understanding of Eiti
fundamentals, which one it is
part of YT stuff so.
Oh yeah.
Alright everyone well I'm gonna
go ahead and head out and go get
some dinner. Hopefully everyone
you know goes and has a good
dinner and um. Have a goodnight
everyone and, uh, again, if you
have any questions or anything
saving for tomorrow 'cause we're
gonna be meeting back at 4:00
o'clock tomorrow so. I will not
see you all. Then everyone have
a fantastic night bye.